Create blueshift.mdx (#477)
rudderlabs/rudderstack-docs: destinations/marketing/blueshift.mdx

<div class="infoBlock">
  
For more information on obtaining the Event and Users API Key, refer to the <a href="#faq">FAQ</a>.
</div>

- **Blueshift EU data center**: Enable this option to send data to the EU servers. When enabled, the base URL for EU region converts to: `https://api.eu.getblueshift.com`

## Identify

The `identify` call lets you create new or update existing customers. It also lets you record the traits about them like their name, email address, etc. It is recommended to limit the `identify` calls to 50 per second.

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.identify("sampleusrRudder8", {
  email: "alex@example.com",
  phone: "+1-202-555-0146",
  firstName: "Alex",
  lastName: "Keener",
});
```

### Supported mappings

The following table details the mapping between RudderStack and Blueshift fields:

| RudderStack field | Blueshift field | Presence |
| :-----| :--------| :------|
| `email` | `email` | Required |
| `userId`  | `customer_id` | Required |
| `event` | `event` | Optional |  
| `phone` | `phone_number`  |  Optional |
| `firstName` | `firstname`  | Optional |
| `lastName` | `lastname` | Optional |

> | `traits.gender`/`context.traits.gender`|`gender`| Optional |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `gender`|`gender`| Optional |
```

<div class="infoBlock">

Blueshift supports custom attributes from your site's customers. For more information on these attributes, refer to the <a href ="https://developer.blueshift.com/docs/customer-related-data#attributes">Blueshift Custom Attributes</a>.
</div>

## Track

The `track` call lets you capture user events along with the properties associated with them.

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track(
  "Product Viewed", {
    cookie: "1234abcd-efghijkj-1234kfjadslk-34iu123",
  }, {
    context: {
      ip: "14.5.67.21",
    },
  }

> );

Reviewer 2: Hey @ishachopra0401, could you remove these rudderanalytics.track() and add these
```
rudderanalytics.track(
  "Product Viewed",
  {
    cookie: "1234abcd-efghijkj-1234kfjadslk-34iu123",
    checkout_id: "C324532",
    order_id: "T1230",
    value: 15.98,
    revenue: 16.98,
    shipping: 3.0,
    coupon: "FY21",
    currency: "INR",
    products: [
      {
        product_id: "product-mixedfruit-jam",
        sku: "sku-1",
        category: "Food",
        name: "Food/Drink",
        brand: "Sample",
        variant: "None",
        price: 10.0,
        quantity: 2,
        currency: "INR",
        position: 1,
        value: 6.0,
        typeOfProduct: "Food",
        url: "https://www.example.com/product/bacon-jam",
        image_url: "https://www.example.com/product/bacon-jam.jpg",
      },
    ],
  },
  {
    context: {
      device: {
        id: "7e32188a4dab669f",
        manufacturer: "Google",
      },
      ip: "14.5.67.21",
    },
  }
);
```

</div>

<div class="infoBlock">

Blueshift supports receiving custom attributes about your site's customers. For more information on these attributes, refer to the <a href ="https://developer.blueshift.com/docs/customer-related-data#attributes">Blueshift Custom Attributes</a>.
</div>

## Group

You can use the `group` call to assign users to a list. To create an empty user list, you can use the [userList](https://developer.blueshift.com/reference/post_api-v1-custom-user-lists-create) API of Blueshift.

A sample `group` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.group("12345", {
  userId: "35428",
  name: "SF1 user list",
  description: "The list of users who are based in San Francisco.",
  email: "alex@example.com",
  isSeedList: true,
  source: "email",
});
```

### Supported mappings

The following table details the mapping between RudderStack and Blueshift fields:

| RudderStack field | Blueshift field | Presence |
| :-----| :--------| :-------------|
| `groupId` | `list_id` | Required |

> | `customer_id` | `identifier_key` | Required |

Author: @sauravlal-rudderstack @utsabc I dint get the reason for this. If we are supporting `identifier_key` and `identifier_value`, is it not better to mention them in the table along with others? 
Am I missing something?

> | `customer_id` | `identifier_key` | Required |

Reviewer 3: since we are doing this by default when userId is provided in the group call we can maybe put an info block say - `Rudderstack automatically maps identifier_key to customer_id`

> | `customer_id` | `identifier_key` | Required |

Author: Got it. This has been updated in docs.

---
# slug: "/docs/destinations/marketing/blueshift"
title: "Blueshift"
description: Step-by-step guide to send your event data from RudderStack to Blueshift.
---

# Blueshift

> [Blueshift's](https://blueshift.com/) SmartHub customer data platform helps consumer brands to intelligently scale customer engagement on every channel. It enables marketers to unify their siloed data and use real-time customer insights and interactions to shape customer experiences.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Blueshift's](https://blueshift.com/) SmartHub customer data platform helps consumer brands scale customer engagement intelligently on every channel. It enables marketers to unify their siloed data and use real-time customer insights and interactions to shape customer experiences.
```

| :------------------ | :------------ | :------------ | :------------ |
| **Device mode**     | -             |   -           |  -            |
| **Cloud mode**      | **Supported** | **Supported** | **Supported** |

<div class="infoBlock">

To know more about the difference between cloud mode and device mode in RudderStack, refer to the <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/connections/rudderstack-connection-modes/">RudderStack Connection Modes</a> guide.
</div>

Once you have confirmed that the source platform supports sending events to Blueshift, follow these steps:

- From your [**RudderStack dashboard**](https://app.rudderstack.com/), add the source. Then, from the list of destinations, select **Blueshift**.

<div class="infoBlock">

Follow our guide on <a href="https://rudderstack.com/docs/connections/adding-source-and-destination-rudderstack/">Adding a Source and Destination in RudderStack</a> for more information.
</div>

## Connection settings

To successfully configure Blueshift as a destination, you will need to configure the following settings:

<img src="../../assets/event-stream-destinations/blueshift-connection-settings.png" alt="Blueshift connection settings"/>

> - **Event API Key**: The Event API Key generated against your Blueshift account. It can be found in your Blueshift dashboard in the **Account Settings** section under **API Keys**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Event API Key**: The Event API Key generated for your Blueshift account. You can find it in your Blueshift dashboard by going to **Account Settings** > **API Keys**.
```

Reviewer 4: I double-checked with the FAQ and this seems to be the correct flow. Please verify.

> - **Users API Key**: The Users API Key generated for your Blueshift account in the **Account Settings** section under **API Keys**.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Users API Key**: Enter the Users API Key generated for your Blueshift account. You can find it in your Blueshift dashboard by going to **Account Settings** > **API Keys**.
```

<div class="infoBlock">
  

> For more information on obtaining the Event and Users API Key, refer to the <a href="#faq">FAQ</a>.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For more information on obtaining the Event and Users API Key, refer to the <a href="#faq">FAQ</a> section below.
```

</div>

> - **Blueshift EU data center**: Enable this option to send data to the EU servers. When enabled, the base URL for EU region converts to: `https://api.eu.getblueshift.com`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Blueshift EU data center**: Enable this option to send data to the EU servers. When enabled, the base URL for EU region converts to `https://api.eu.getblueshift.com`
```

## Identify

> The `identify` call lets you create new or update existing customers. It also lets you record the traits about them like their name, email address, etc. It is recommended to limit the `identify` calls to 50 per second.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `identify` call lets you create new or update existing customers and record the traits about them like their name, email address, etc. It is recommended to limit the `identify` calls to 50 per second.
```

Reviewer 4: Should the `identify` call limit be presented as an info note? Would be better if it stands out as important information.

A sample `identify` call is shown below:

```javascript

> rudderanalytics.identify("sampleusrRudder8", {

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
rudderanalytics.identify("1hKOmRA4el9Zt1WSfVJIVo4GRlm", {
```

Reviewer 4: User ID as per the unified persona.

  email: "alex@example.com",
  phone: "+1-202-555-0146",
  firstName: "Alex",
  lastName: "Keener",
});
```

### Supported mappings

The following table details the mapping between RudderStack and Blueshift fields:

| RudderStack field | Blueshift field | Presence |
| :-----| :--------| :------|
| `email` | `email` | Required |
| `userId`  | `customer_id` | Required |
| `event` | `event` | Optional |  
| `phone` | `phone_number`  |  Optional |
| `firstName` | `firstname`  | Optional |
| `lastName` | `lastname` | Optional |
| `gender`|`gender`| Optional |

<div class="infoBlock">

> Blueshift supports custom attributes from your site's customers. For more information on these attributes, refer to the <a href ="https://developer.blueshift.com/docs/customer-related-data#attributes">Blueshift Custom Attributes</a>.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Blueshift supports custom attributes from your site's customers. For more information on these attributes, refer to <a href ="https://developer.blueshift.com/docs/customer-related-data#attributes">Blueshift Custom Attributes</a>.
```

</div>

## Track

> The `track` call lets you capture user events along with the properties associated with them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `track` call lets you capture user events along with the associated properties.
```

A sample `track` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.track(
  "Product Viewed", {
    cookie: "1234abcd-efghijkj-1234kfjadslk-34iu123",
    checkout_id: "C324532",
    order_id: "T1230",
    value: 15.98,
    revenue: 16.98,
    shipping: 3.0,
    coupon: "FY21",
    currency: "USD",
    products: [{
      product_id: "product-mixedfruit-jam",
      sku: "sku-1",
      category: "Food",
      name: "Food/Drink",
      brand: "Sample",
      variant: "None",
      price: 10.0,
      quantity: 2,
      currency: "USD",
      position: 1,
      value: 6.0,
      typeOfProduct: "Food",
      url: "https://www.example.com/product/mixedfruit-jam",
      image_url: "https://www.example.com/product/mixedfruit-jam.jpg",
    }, ],
  }, {
    context: {
      device: {
        id: "7e32188a4dab669f",
        manufacturer: "Google",
      },
      ip: "14.5.67.21",
    },
  }
);

> ```

Reviewer 4: @sauravlal-rudderstack should we reduce the number of properties shown in this sample call and retain only the essential/required ones? This will help a lot from a readability perspective. cc @ishachopra0401 @utsabc

Reviewer: Then we can use Simple track example rather than an E-Com spec

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I'm updating the properties.
```
rudderanalytics.track(
  "Product Viewed",
  {
    cookie: "1234abcd-efghijkj-1234kfjadslk-34iu123",
    checkout_id: "C324532",
    order_id: "T1230",
    value: 15.98,
    revenue: 16.98,
    products: [
      {
        product_id: "product-mixedfruit-jam",
        sku: "sku-1",
        category: "Food",
        name: "Food/Drink",
        brand: "Sample",
        url: "https://www.example.com/product/bacon-jam",
        image_url: "https://www.example.com/product/bacon-jam.jpg",
      },
    ],
  },
  {
    context: {
      device: {
        id: "7e32188a4dab669f",
        manufacturer: "Google",
      },
      ip: "14.5.67.21",
    },
  }
); 
```

### Supported mappings

RudderStack maps the following events to the Blueshift events in the `track` call before sending them over Blueshift's HTTP API.

> 

Reviewer: Can we link Our E-Com spec doc somewhere here?

Reviewer 4: makes sense

| RudderStack event         | Blueshift event      | 
| :--------------------------- | :---------------------  |
| `Product Viewed`             |  `view`                |         
| `Product Added`               | `add_to_cart`               |             
| `Order Completed`           | `purchase`           |         
| `Products Searched`            | `search`            |          
| `Subscribe Interest`                | `subscribe_interest `                |            
| `Unsubscribe Interest`            | `unsubscribe_interest `            |          
| `Checkout Step Viewed`               | `checkout `               |             
| ` Product Removed`              | `remove_from_cart`              |            
| `Identify`                 | `identify`          |                

<div class="infoBlock">

> Blueshift supports custom events to track any custom user action on your site or app. For more information, refer to the <a href ="https://developer.blueshift.com/docs/your-sites-event-data#custom-event">Blueshift Custom Event</a>.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Blueshift supports custom events to track any custom user action on your site or app. For more information, refer to the <a href ="https://developer.blueshift.com/docs/your-sites-event-data#custom-event">Blueshift Custom Event</a> guide.
```

</div>

The following table details the mapping between RudderStack and Blueshift fields:

| RudderStack field | Blueshift field | Presence |
| :-----| :--------| :-------------|
| `userId`  | `customer_id` | Optional |
| `email` | `email` | Optional |

> | `event` | `event` | Required |  

Reviewer 4: @ishachopra0401 let's move the Required field at the top, followed by all the optional ones?

| `context.device.type` | `device_type` | Optional |  
| `context.device.token` | `device_token` | Optional |
| `context.device.id` | `device_id` | Optional |
| `context.idfa`/`context.device.advertisingId` | `device_idfa` | Optional |
| `context.idfv`/`context.device.id` | `device_idfv` | Optional |
| `context.device.manufacturer` | `device_manufacturer` | Optional|
| `context.os.name` | `os_name` | Optional|
| `context.network.carrier` | `network_carrier` | Optional|
| `context.ip`/`request_ip` | `ip` | Optional |
| `context.address.latitude`/`context.location.latitude` | `latitude` | Optional |
| `context.address.longitude`/`context.location.longitude` | `longitude` | Optional|
| `messageId` |  `event_uuid`| Optional|
| `properties.cookie` | `cookie` | Optional|

<div class="infoBlock">
  

> The <code class="inline-code">event</code> name is a required field and should <strong>not</strong> contain period (.), numeric value, or more than 64 characters. A space is automatically converted  to underscore (_).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The <code class="inline-code">event</code> name is a required field and should <strong>not</strong> contain period (.), numeric value, or be more than 64 characters. RudderStack automatically converts a space into an underscore (_).
```

Reviewer 4: @sauravlal-rudderstack I am assuming these conditions are applicable at the destination-end? If so, how does RudderStack handle event names with a period `.` or a number or more than 64 characters? We mention the measures taken for a space (RS converts it to an underscore) - it would be good to add this info as well. cc @ishachopra0401

Reviewer 3: we just convert space with an underscore and for rest, we will throw an error

Reviewer 4: @ishachopra0401 can we then revise the sentence to something like:

The <code class="inline-code">event</code> name is a required field and should <strong>not</strong> contain period (.) or a numeric value, or be more than 64 characters. Otherwise, RudderStack will reject the event and throw an error. 

RudderStack also automatically converts a space in the event name into an underscore (_). So, an event name like <code class="inline-code">product searched</code> will be converted to <code class="inline-code">product_searched</code> before sending it to Blueshift.

Reviewer 3: We already have mapping for `products searched` maybe we can use `custom events` -> `custom_events`

Author: done

A sample `group` call is shown below:

```javascript
rudderanalytics.group("12345", {
  userId: "35428",
  name: "SF1 user list",
  description: "The list of users who are based in San Francisco.",
  email: "alex@example.com",
  isSeedList: true,
  source: "email",
});
```

### Supported mappings

The following table details the mapping between RudderStack and Blueshift fields:

| RudderStack field | Blueshift field | Presence |
| :-----| :--------| :-------------|
| `groupId` | `list_id` | Required |
| `userId` | `identifier_value` | Required |
| `name`  | `name` | Optional|
| `traits.description`/`context.traits.description` | `description` | Optional|
| `traits.isSeedList`/`context.traits.isSeedList` | `is_seed_list` | Optional|
| `traits.source`/`context.traits.source` | `source` | Optional|

Rudderstack automatically maps the <code class="inline-code">identifier_key</code> to <code class="inline-code">customer_id</code> when <code class="inline-code">userId</code> is provided in the <code class="inline-code">group</code> call.

<div class="infoBlock">
  

> If a `list_id` already exists, the user is added to the list. Otherwise, a new empty user list is created and the user is added to that list.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If a <code class="inline-code">list_id</code> already exists, the user is added to the list. Otherwise, a new empty user list is created and the user is added to that list.
```

</div>

## FAQ

> ### How to obtain the API keys?

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### How do I obtain the Blueshift API keys?
```
